We see through the process of light
being transmitted through the eye to the retina,
which converts light into electrical impulses
that are sent to the brain.
One part of the eye that changes with age
and affects vision is the lens.
Along with the cornea,
the lens helps to bend light
to be focused on the retina.
It changes shape
so that images of objects at different
distances are transmitted clearly.
As we get older,
the lens becomes less flexible
and it becomes harder to focus
clearly on close objects.
This is called presbyopia.
This process may occur earlier
in people who are already farsighted.
People who are nearsighted may be able
to see close objects clearly without their glasses,
but experience blurry vision
when wearing lenses for distance.
The easiest way to correct presbyopia
is with glasses.
People who already wear glasses for distance vision
may need another pair
of glasses for close vision.
Bifocals and progressive lenses
correct both distance and close up vision.
People who wear contact lenses
for distance vision
may also need reading glasses
or they may use two monovision lenses,
that is, one contact lens for distance vision
and the other for close-up vision.
There are also surgical treatments for presbyopia.
Options include reshaping the cornea with a laser
or low energy radio waves,
and implantation of a replacement lens.